Discovie

Discovie is a web application aimed at suggesting relevant movie and TV show titles to user’s based off of their favorite genres, already watched movies and shows, and reviews. Our goal is to provide a list of personalized movie suggestions to users that will adjust to their preferences and tastes over time.

Upon creating a new account, users will be asked to fill out a questionnaire regarding their personal movie taste and preferences. This provides valuable information regarding the user’s movie and TV show preferences such as favorite genre or style, specific actors, average runtime length, year, and personal favorites. By using this initial information, our web application will return movie and TV show suggestions fitting the user’s tastes and preferences. Our app will allow users to keep track of various analytics such as a user’s previously watched movies and their rating of it and will in turn, use this information for future recommendations.

The greatest difficulty we will have of the project, apart from learning new languages, would be figuring out a match engine to take in multiple points of data for a user and figure out an appropriate movie recommendation to suggest. Another difficult task would be structuring and designing the database schema around not only being able to store movie metadata, but also things such as user reviews and ratings. We expect these two to take up most of our planning and discussion time.

At a minimum, our project will consist of a user-interface for our web application where users will be suggested films based off of their movie preferences. Ideally, we would be able to display the movie poster, title, movie metadata, and why it is a good match for the user. We would allow the user to add the movie to his or her movie list or completely discard the review. The match engine/algorithm would be very basic in nature and would provide recommendations largely based on genre or type.

One big goal for us is to expand on the match engine for our product. One feature we are looking into adding is using natural language processing to help with movie recommendations and matches, specifically by utilizing a broad-based chunk parse to match keywords with not only basic information like genre, movie length or age rating, but also more advanced content like review, summaries or context. Other optional features we hope to accomplish include the ability to link to the movie trailer, display the synopsis, display reviews, and figure out whether major content providers (Hulu, Netflix, Amazon Video, etc.) have the movie available to stream, rent, or buy. Other features that we hope to incorporate into our web app include the ability to create multiple movie lists, collaborate and interact with other users, and share, rate, and review movies.

We plan to divide roles by splitting up work based on each person’s familiarity and comfort with each task. Though our team is completely new to building web applications, all of us have prior experience with other areas of programming and we hope that, by dividing work based around our various strengths and weaknesses, we will be able to accomplish our project minimum with time to implement other features and functionality.
